Add blog post on the future of Jellyfin (#71)
jellyfin/jellyfin-blog: content/posts/roadmap.md

---
title: "The future of Jellyfin"
subtitle: "A look into what's to come"
author: "Julien Machiels"
githubusername: "MrTimscampi"
date: ""
justify: "center"
---

As we approach the end of a few big migrations, we thought it would be a good occasion to go over the next steps for Jellyfin, as well as answer some common questions.

<!--more-->

# Phase 1: A little catch-up

> Since the beginning of the project, we have had a few clear goals that, while never listed out right, were well known of the contributors. Here they are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the beginning of the project, we have had a few clear goals that, while never listed outright, were well known of the contributors. Here they are:
```

The reason for it is that we expect the development process of Jellyfin 11 to take a decent amount of time. As such, the current plan is to have this last stable version co-exist with what we call Jellyfin Next.

Jellyfin Next will receive a 10.9x.y version, but will contain a large amount of breaking changes. To prevent accidental updates, we expect to make these releases using a new package called `jellyfin-next`. These releases, happening every few months, have three objectives:

* Allowing us to spend some time on fixing bugs introduced by the major changes in progress
* Allowing users to test these breaking changes using a less unstable version of Jellyfin.
* Allowing our third party clients and tools to prepare for the change

There is, unfortunately, no timeline for when this will happen, but we expect 10.8 or 10.9 to be the last version of Jellyfin 10.

# Phase 4: To infinity and beyond

It's still very early to talk about what a post-Jellyfin 11 world will look like. However, there are some expectations that we can already share with you.

> With the sources for both the server and the web client being a lot more modern and easy to work with, we expect development of nex features, both major and minor ones, to pick up considerably. If you remember that tab-based navigation I used as an example before, we expect that this kind of feature would take around half a day for someone to implement. Compared to the current week of work, it's a substantial improvement and, as such, we expect more contributors to appear and more features to see the light of day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the sources for both the server and the web client being a lot more modern and easy to work with, we expect development of new features, both major and minor ones, to pick up considerably. If you remember that tab-based navigation I used as an example before, we expect that this kind of feature would take around half a day for someone to implement. Compared to the current week of work, it's a substantial improvement and, as such, we expect more contributors to appear and more features to see the light of day.
```

> With the sources for both the server and the web client being a lot more modern and easy to work with, we expect development of nex features, both major and minor ones, to pick up considerably. If you remember that tab-based navigation I used as an example before, we expect that this kind of feature would take around half a day for someone to implement. Compared to the current week of work, it's a substantial improvement and, as such, we expect more contributors to appear and more features to see the light of day.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the sources for both the server and the web client being a lot more modern and easy to work with, we expect development of next features, both major and minor ones, to pick up considerably. If you remember that tag-based navigation I used as an example before, we expect that this kind of feature would take around half a day for someone to implement. Compared to the current week of work, it's a substantial improvement and, as such, we expect more contributors to appear and more features to see the light of day.
```

> Along with that, a stable ABI for plugins will mean less maintenance efforts for plugin developers, hopefully leading to a larger ecosystem of third-party plugins to add features to Jellyfin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Along with that, a stable API for plugins will mean less maintenance efforts for plugin developers, hopefully leading to a larger ecosystem of third-party plugins to add features to Jellyfin.
```
